Change Log
-----------

The following represents key changes for a complete set of changes review Git history:

- **June 2026**, **IMPORTANT CHANGE** - Library is no longer dependent on ApexMocks. Code coverage remains the same and existing deployments of both this library and ApexMocks will continue to work. Update this library without updating ApexMocks is now also possible.
- **December 2022**, **IMPORTANT CHANGE** - Support for native Apex User Mode was added to the library (see [discussion](https://github.com/apex-enterprise-patterns/fflib-apex-common/discussions/419)). For new projects, the old `enforceCRUD` and `enforceFLS` flags on `fflib_SObjectSelector` should be considered deprecated and the constructors that take `dataAccess` arguments should be used instead. Additionally, the introduction of `fflib_SObjectUnitOfWork.UserModeDML` provides an `IDML` implementation that supports `USER_MODE` or `SYSTEM_MODE`. `fflib_SObjectUnitOfWork.SimpleDML` (the default `IDML` implementation) should be considered deprecated. There are measurable performance benefits to using `SYSTEM_MODE` and `USER_MODE` (Apex CPU usage reduction). Additionally, the use of explicit `USER_MODE` and `SYSTEM_MODE` overrides the `with sharing` and `without sharing` class declaration and makes the expected behavior of DML and SOQL easier to understand.
- **April 2021**, **IMPORTANT CHANGE**, the fflib_SObjectDomain has been split into a domain (fflib_IDomain) and triggerhandler (fflib_ISObjectDomain). This change can impact existing projects, please review [this page](docs/202105-new-domain-structure.md) for more details.
- **April 2020**, **IMPORTANT CHANGE**, the directory format of this project repo was converted to [Salesforce DX Source Format](https://developer.salesforce.com/docs/atlas.en-us.sfdx_dev.meta/sfdx_dev/sfdx_dev_source_file_format.htm).  While the GIT commit history was maintained, it is not visible on GitHub.  If you need to see the history, either clone the repo and execute `git log --follow` from the command line or refer to this [tag](https://github.com/apex-enterprise-patterns/fflib-apex-common/tree/metadata-format-prior-to-dx-source-format-conversion) of the codebase prior to conversion.
- **September 2014**, **IMPORTANT CHANGE**, changes applied to support Dreamforce 2014 advanced presentation, library now provides Application factories for major layers and support for ApexMocks. More details to follow! As a result [ApexMocks](https://github.com/apex-enterprise-patterns/fflib-apex-mocks) must be deployed to the org before deploying this library. The sample application [here](https://github.com/apex-enterprise-patterns/fflib-apex-common-samplecode) has also been updated to demonstrate the new features!
- **July 2014**, **IMPORTANT CHANGE**, prior **23rd July 2014**, both the ``fflib_SObjectDomain.onValidate()`` and ``fflib_SObjectDomain.onValidate(Map<Id, SObject> existingRecords)`` methods where called during an on **after update** trigger event. From this point on the ``onValidate()`` method will only be called during on **after insert**. If you still require the orignal behaviour add the line ``Configuration.enableOldOnUpdateValidateBehaviour();`` into your constructor.
- **June 2014**, New classes providing utilities to support security and dynamic queries, in addition to improvements to existing Apex Enterprise Pattern base classes. Read more [here](http://andyinthecloud.com/2014/06/28/financialforce-apex-common-updates/).
